## Justin Richardson's Final Paper GEOG 458

In my paper,  I will be analyzing the Jefferson County Tennessee COVID Response Web Hub. This is a multi faceted webhub, with raw data graphed, several webmaps with multiple layers of data, and links to covid relief resources. The hubs purpose is mainly to provide the public with as much information with regards to the pandemic as possible. Some of this information is awareness, such as case counts, and other is practical knowledge such as how to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. The data of this web project is based on statistics from the Tennessee Department of Health and UTK. The data is collected on a daily basis, but much of the data is not reported on the weekends due to government agencies being closed. Due to the fact that the data is local to Tennessee, the target for this hub is people who live in or near Tennessee and want more information on the state of COVID in those areas. However, anybody with an internet connection can access the project, and it does include several tools that apply to a larger area than just Tennessee. For example, the hospital bed counter that is on the hub contains data for the entire United States as opposed to just Tennessee. The data was gathered and presented by the Jefferson County GIS Consortium and a few data points gathered from the CDC, which would explain why most of the data is local to Tennessee. The web maps themselves contain several layers and elements, some of which are present on all of the maps and some of which are only present in one or two maps. All of the maps contain basic features such as scale bars, legends, zoom features, search features, and a home icon that takes the user back to the default view of the map. The maps are constructed from only one or two layers of data. They are then visualized in either a choropleth or dot density map. In addition to these maps, there are also links to other COVID dashboards, such as Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Dashboard, the University of Virginia's COVID dashboard, and the COVID 2020 travel advisories dashboard. There is also a section near the bottom with what each person can do to prevent covid, with several resources for any follow up questions that users might have.

This project's system architecture is just a basic html webpage with a heap of javascript and outside resources hosted on ArcGIS's web server. Most of the javascript is imported and is not inlcuded in the webpage's html. The maps that are provided are using ArcGIS's online web mapping tool, and the graphs that are provided are generated by tableau. It looks to be that the data for the tables are queried as the user enters the site in order for them to get the most up to date information without constant maintenance on the website. In addition to these maps, there is also an embedded website that has covid data from across the state and an embedded twitter widget that shows tweets from the Tennessee department of health. The major functions of this webhub are displaying numbers which are brought in through the javascripts, and mapping or graphing, which is mostly done through ArcGIS and Tableau.

This project has a decent UX design, but nearly every facet of the project is responsive to window size. The maps themselves are responsive as well, and feature several interactive features. Each of the counties on the map feature a menu that opens on click that features more detailed statistics. Additionally, you are able to remove or add layers from the layers that they have created. The website's information is presented cleanly at first, then gets slightly messy, and then finally goes back to being neat and informative. The first thing your eyes are brought to when you enter the website are the worldwide confirmed cases, worldwide deaths, and the worldwide recovered counters. These provide a quick snapshot for the severity of the disease, and provide a sort of context for the rest of the website. Immediately after however, there is several lines of different sized fonts and different colored fonts that looks quite disjointed. There are also vast amounts of empty space throughout the website that could have been improved upon. There is also a pdf viewer in the middle of the website that looks quite out of place, and could have easily been converted to an embedded image  In the window that shows the states website, it is a different story, with intuitive icons and well spaced windows that fit together and are visually appealing even as I change my window size! After this window, the design of the website improves conisderably, and shows the available maps and some well put together graphics about the symptoms and preventative measures for covid. The blue icons with text neatly arranged under them is a clean look, and the color scheme is also well chosen for its purpose. The light blues and bright yellows and reds feel right at home with the color schemes of the CDC and the Tennessee department of health. Some of the maps also have issues with keeping the layers in line with the basemap as you move around the map, and I found that I needed to reload the map on more than one occasion to fix bugs such as the layer staying stationary despite me moving the basemap.

In terms of the maps themselves, they are simple but communicate the necessary information clearly. The light orange to dark red is a simple and effective color scheme for mapping things like case numbers, and gives the user a good idea of the information at a quick glance. The basemap is also a visually appealing choice, and does not distract from the added layers that are the focus of the map. That being said, They created two separate maps for total covid cases in each county and the current covid cases in each county, which I feel could have been combined into a single multi layered map. The data source for the maps was also very unclear, and was only mentioned in a text box that did not display all of its text correctly, and I was forced to use inspect element to actually figure out where the data was coming from. I was also disappointed to see a large lack of vaccination mapping, with no maps that show the current state of covid vaccinations existing. Addiontally, some of the features that are present in the maps are not calculated properly, and are currently showing null values, such as the total recovered and the new recovered columns on the Active Cases and Remote Assessment map. While this does not hinder the users experience with the map, it does make the project seem less professional, and could have easily been solved by removing those data fields or fixing the bug that is causing it. Another aspect of the data that is very important is the severity of the cases, and there is not available indicator to show how many people have been effected severely by the disease other than death. While this is likely due to a lack of data, it could have been an interesting point to map out. I also believe that the number of hospital beds data could have been used more effectively here. They have both the data of the current covid cases, and the total number of hospital beds in each county in Tennessee, it seems it would have been rather easy to make a layer that shows an estimate of the current number of hospital beds available by county. The map also does not account for population at all, and nearly all counties around major cities are red. Adjusting for population would have allowed us to get a clearer sense of the severity of cases in the cities comparatively, without the large population bias that tends to overtake most covid maps. Yet again, another layer would have made this dashboard more useful, but overall the map does stick to solid cartographic principles, and is a useful tool to those in Tennessee.

The dashboard displays the information that it needs to, but could have done so in a more elegant way. The maps are sometimes clunky but do provide good information, and the outside resources that are added to the
web hub are all relevant and rarely overlap with information that is present on the website. While there might be more in depth covid dashboards that exist, for its target audience of Tennessee citizens, this web hub is certainly a great starting point, and I believe that most will find what they are looking for on this web hub without having to refer to another resource. As for users that are not their primary audience, there are ample resources that can point them in the right direction avaliable on the webhub, and they should have no issue being able to find their way from here.
